TCP/IP NETWORKING ARCHITECTURE

	In the 1980s, connecting a group of computers belonging to different vendors was of relative complexity. The connection and communication systems at the time was limited because the major networking protocols compagnies recognized recognized their own machines; for instance, IBM with their System Network Architecture (SNA) in 1974. Such a network system only supported IBM’s machines, making diversity in organizations obsolete. Fortunately, through the intervention of organizations such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in the 1970s and the US Department of Defense (DoD) the TCP / IP networking model would soon be ‘born’.
	TCP / IP model is a set of computer protocols that make a communication (network) possible. TCP / IP is based on the use of Request For Comments (RFC). The model owes its optimal productivity to its capacity to refer to standards already created by vendors; avoiding to repeat work already done by third parties. This leads to a technological flexibility that is most common to us: connecting your tablet, smartphone or newly acquired PC to the network from the first boot. All this is possible thanks to the fact that TCP / IP is already implemented in most systems.
	TCP / IP architecture model can be simplified into sub-sections vaguely called layers. Each layer has a very particular function. TCP/IP is seemingly divided into 2 models: the TCP / IP model RFC 1122 with 4 layers and the TCP / IP Updated version with 5 layers. In the two systems layers works similarly same with most of the differences put toward the process; with the first layers always dedicated to the transmission and reception of messages. The rest of layers work to assure that singularity of links and paths are respected. 
	Let’s dig now into the layout  of the basic TCP / IP model:
	The application layer is the layer where the data is implemented and sent to other applications; it is the part that  initiate the communication. 
	The transport layer is in charge of initiating and maintaining the channels through which the data will flow.
	The Internet layer will substantially establish inter-networking, in bref it consist of the Internet.
	The Link layer instaures the protocols for the local network and set reliable interfaces for the Internet layer datagrams.

	TCP/IP is nowadays an incontournable network architecture in the IT field. It has several advantages that are notably reliability that ease recovery in instance of failure, flexibility when it comes to add new networks, and low overhead. However its primarily design for large network makes it not convenient for smaller ones; in addition it may be confusing to identify new technologies in recents networks. All that said it’s irrefutable that TCP/IP is one of the best networking architecture in term of versatility, reliability and productivity.
